Add initial implementation (#1)
syntax-tree/unist-util-lsp: readme.md

# unist-lsp

[![Build][build-badge]][build]
[![Coverage][coverage-badge]][coverage]
[![Downloads][downloads-badge]][downloads]
[![Size][size-badge]][size]
[![Sponsors][sponsors-badge]][collective]
[![Backers][backers-badge]][collective]
[![Chat][chat-badge]][chat]

> Utility to convert between [unist][] and  [language server protocol][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Convert positional info between [unist][] and [language server protocol][]
```

## Contents

*   [What is this?](#what-is-this)
*   [When should I use this?](#when-should-i-use-this)
*   [Install](#install)
*   [Use](#use)
*   [API](#api)
    *   [`unistPointToLspPosition(point)`](#unistpointtolsppositionpoint)
    *   [`unist-lsp(position)`](#unist-lspposition)
    *   [`unistPositionToLspRange(position)`](#unistpositiontolsprangeposition)
    *   [`lspRangeToUnistPosition(range)`](#lsprangetounistpositionrange)
*   [Types](#types)
*   [Compatibility](#compatibility)
*   [Security](#security)
*   [Related](#related)
*   [Contribute](#contribute)
*   [License](#license)

## What is this?

> This package is a utility that takes converts between [unist][] and
> [language server protocol][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package is a utility that converts positional info between [unist][] and
[language server protocol][].
```

## When should I use this?

> This project is useful when you want to deal with unist ASTs and a language
> server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project is useful when you are dealing with both unist ASTs and a language
server.
```

## Install

This package is [ESM only][esm].
In Node.js (version 14.14+, or 16.0+), install with [npm][]:

```sh
npm install unist-lsp
```

In Deno with [`esm.sh`][esmsh]:

```js

> import {
>   lspPositionToUnistPoint,
>   lspRangeToUnistPosition,
>   unistPointToLspPosition,
>   unistPositionToLspRange,
> } from "https://esm.sh/unist-lsp@?0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import * as unistLsp from "https://esm.sh/unist-lsp@?0"
```

As there are so many exports, which are documented below, I believe it is better to not overwhelm users with all the possible options

Author: Even with the shorter names? I generally prefer named imports over wildcard imports.

Reviewer: For like 2 it is fine. Maybe 3? But 4 or more feels like a bit much to me.

Not very important to me though.

```

In browsers with [`esm.sh`][esmsh]:

```html
<script type="module">

>   import {
>     lspPositionToUnistPoint,
>     lspRangeToUnistPosition,
>     unistPointToLspPosition,
>     unistPositionToLspRange,
>   } from "https://esm.sh/unist-lsp@?0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  import * as unistLsp from 'https://esm.sh/unist-lsp@?0'
```

Same as above + single quotes as this is JS

</script>
```

## Use

Say we have the following `example.md`:

```markdown
## Hello **World**!
```

…and next to it a module `example.js`:

```js

> import {promises as fs} from 'node:fs'

Author: ```suggestion
import fs from 'node:fs/promises'
```

Reviewer: sure, I don’t have strong opinions. I like your proposal

import {fromMarkdown} from 'mdast-util-from-markdown'

const markdown = String(await fs.readFile('example.md'))
const mdast = fromMarkdown(markdown)

const range = unistPositionToLspRange(mdast.position)

> console.dir(range)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
console.log(range)
```

`log` should be fine here.
You could also show a couple of other examples, e.g., `fromPoint(tree.position.start)`. And the inverse

```

…now running `node example.js` yields:

> ```html

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```js
````

Also: the code here should be formatted tightly: no spaces “in” brackets

Author: > Also: the code here should be formatted tightly: no spaces “in” brackets

That’s inconsistent with the actual output.

{ start: { line: 0, character: 0 }, end: { line: 0, character: 19 } }
```

## API

> This package exports the identifiers  `lspPositionToUnistPoint`, `lspRangeToUnistPosition`, `unistPointToLspPosition`, and `unistPositionToLspRange`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package exports the identifiers  `lspPositionToUnistPoint`,
`lspRangeToUnistPosition`, `unistPointToLspPosition`, and
`unistPositionToLspRange`
```

There is no default export.

### `unistPointToLspPosition(point)`

> Convert a unist point to a language server protocol position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Turn a unist point into a language server protocol position.
```

(rest similar. I think the word “turn” is more “normal” English, less jargon-y)

You might want to link to the unist and lsp specs for what’s-what too?

### `unist-lsp(position)`

Convert a language server protocol position to a unist point.

### `unistPositionToLspRange(position)`

Convert a unist position to a language server protocol range.

### `lspRangeToUnistPosition(range)`

Convert a language server protocol range to a unist position.

## Types

> This package is fully typed with [TypeScript][].

Reviewer: Should it export Point/Position/LspRange/LspPoint?

Author: Preferably not. IMO re-exports often make it ambiguous what’s the best way to import things. People can just import from `unist` or `vscode-languageserver-types` instead.

Reviewer: Ok, sure, let’s not export them.

I’d strongly agree with you about like, utilities exporting `unist.Node`.

But here I’m a bit more ambiguous.

## Compatibility

Projects maintained by the unified collective are compatible with all maintained
versions of Node.js.
As of now, that is Node.js 14.14+, and 16.0+.
Our projects sometimes work with older versions, but this is not guaranteed.

## Security

> 

Author: I’m not really sure what to put here for this package.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This package is safe.
```

Author: Lol nice

## Related

*   [`unist`][unist]

>     — a specification for abstract syntax trees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    — specification for abstract syntax trees
```

*   [`language server protocol`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol)

>     — a protocol for communicating between an editor and a language server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    — protocol to communicating between editors and language servers
```

[build-badge]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/unist-lsp/workflows/main/badge.svg

[build]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/unist-lsp/actions

[coverage-badge]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/syntax-tree/unist-lsp.svg

[coverage]: https://codecov.io/github/syntax-tree/unist-lsp

[downloads-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/unist-lsp.svg

[downloads]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/unist-lsp

[size-badge]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/unist-lsp.svg

[size]: https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=unist-lsp

[sponsors-badge]: https://opencollective.com/unified/sponsors/badge.svg

[backers-badge]: https://opencollective.com/unified/backers/badge.svg

[collective]: https://opencollective.com/unified

[chat-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-discussions-success.svg

[chat]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/unist/discussions

[language server protocol]: https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol

[license]: license

[npm]: https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install

[author]: https://github.com/remcohaszing

[esm]: https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c

[esmsh]: https://esm.sh

[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org

> [contributing]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/.github/blob/HEAD/contributing.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[contributing]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/.github/blob/main/contributing.md
```

> [support]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/.github/blob/HEAD/support.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[support]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/.github/blob/main/support.md
```

> [coc]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/.github/blob/HEAD/code-of-conduct.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[coc]: https://github.com/syntax-tree/.github/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md
```
